# df-mod7-paper
The Consideration of Cellebrite UFED as State of the Art. 
John-David Crow 04/18/2024
Cellebrite UFED, https://cellebrite.com
is a mobile device forensic tool developed by Cellebrite. Cellebrite is an Israeli company started in 1999 by Avi Yablonka, Yaron Baratz, and Yuval Aflalo. In the beginning, Cellebrite produced machines that would easily transfer data from one cell phone to another. Their target market was mobile phone retailers. Their machines made it easy for the retailers to transfer the phone owner’s data to a new phone that the customers were purchasing as an upgrade or replacement for a broken device. In 2007 the company’s product and marketing strategy changed to encompass digital forensics for law enforcement. With the founding of its Mobile Forensics Division, they introduced the UFED. The UFED gave investigators the ability to extract both physical and logical data from mobile devices. At Cellebrite, the top management team is comprised of highly experienced members that include former members of global law enforcement agencies. Cellebrite partners with public and private organizations to transform how they collect, analyze, and manage data in investigations to protect lives, accelerate justice and ensure data security (Cellebrite, 2024). 
Cellebrite’s UFED is used for mobile device forensics. It is widely used by law enforcement agencies on state, federal, and international levels. As an all-in-one tool, an investigator can use the device to connect directly with the mobile device in question to perform logical and physical extractions. It can retrieve deleted data, access encrypted data, and access passcode locked devices. Cellebrite’s goal is to increase the speed in which users can access, analyze, and process digital evidence. To assist in this goal, Cellebrite offers training and support to users and frequent updates to its tools. Cellebrite also offers advanced services to law enforcement agencies for advanced challenges and time sensitive cases. For law enforcement organizations using Cellebrite UFED, the ability to seamlessly access and analyze critical data from multiple digital sources is by far the largest benefit. “Once data is extracted using Cellebrite UFED, it can be further analyzed using the tool’s built-in analysis capabilities or exported to other forensic software for in-depth examination. UFED provides a user-friendly interface that allows investigators to explore extracted data intuitively. It enables searching, filtering, and sorting capabilities, as well as generating detailed reports for presentation in court.” (Medium, 2023). 
There are many pros, and a few cons that I have determined from the research I have performed on the Cellebrite UFED tool. Accessibility and ease of investigator usage top the list of benefits for Cellebrite. The negatives that I discovered revolved around the expensive cost of the product and questions on whether there are flaws in Cellebrite’s technology. In one article, the Signal messenger application creator, Moxie Marlinspike stated in a blog post that software flaws could corrupt data collected by the Universal Forensic Extraction Device (UFED) and Physical Analyzer, two of Cellebrite's tools.  
"We found that it's possible to execute arbitrary code on a Cellebrite machine simply by including a specially formatted but otherwise innocuous file in any app on a device that is subsequently plugged into Cellebrite and scanned," Marlinspike writes. "There are virtually no limits on the code that can be executed."(Cyber Journal, 2021).

The positives of using Cellebrite UFED is that it allows investigators to examine mobile devices quickly and easily. Its capabilities in accessing passcode protected devices, decoding encrypted information, and the tools it provides, “Allow the investigator to really, fully complete the case and get all the minute details,” according to Intel Analyst Supervisor David Crain, “It gets the evidence that they need and the confidence to effectively close out a case.” (Cellebrite, 2024, February 9). Mr. Crain goes on to describe Cellebrite by saying, “These tools allow the investigator to show what the analysis is and what the data shows. And also visual is so much better than words,” Crain says. “So, to be able to show the data points during a case or trial, it allows the investigator to better explain to the jury, judge and prosecutors so they really understand the technical details of the data.” (Cellebrite, 2024, February 9. Mr. Crain works for The Cybercrime Office in the Florida Department of Law Enforcement (FDLE), one of the law enforcement agencies that use Cellebrite. 
There are many law enforcement agencies in the United States currently using Cellebrite UFED including the Georgia Bureau of Investigation, the Broward County Sheriff’s Department in Florida, Oakland County Sherrif’s Department in Florida, the South Carolina Law Enforcement Division (SLED), and the Indianapolis Metropolitan Police Department in Indiana. A common theme in these articles is that the volume of cases an investigator can complete using the Cellebrite UFED has increased drastically from previous methods. Many agencies have reduced backlogged cases because of the ease of usage and the included support features from Cellebrite. 
One interesting topic that came up was the fear that Cellebrite’s technology could be used illegally and unethically. It was alluded to that anyone could use their technology whenever or however they liked. Cellebrite responded by saying that the UFED could only be used with current registration and that the services can only be performed with required legal documents like warrants. No service or assistance would be available otherwise. 

“Exploring the Power of Cellebrite UFED. in Digital Forensics”.  (2023, May 24).  Medium. https://medium.com/@pelorustechnologies/exploring-the-power-of-cellebrite-ufed-in-digital-forensics-7046e433d686
“The Age of Digital Investigations is Here”. In Cellebrite Online. (2023). https://cellebrite.com/en/about/
Maximizing Digital Investigative Solutions: How the Florida Department of Law Enforcement (FDLE) Is Solving Crimes with Technology. In Cellebrite online. https://cellebrite.com/en/maximizing-digital-investigative-solutions-how-the-florida-department-of-law-enforcement-fdle-is-solving-crimes-with-technology/
Nurick, O. (2021, August 4). The Solution That Changed Modern Digital Investigations Forever. https://cellebrite.com/en/the-solution-that-changed-modern-digital-investigations-forever/
Pagliery, J. (2016, April 1). Cellebrite is the FBI's go-to phone hacker. https://money.cnn.com/2016/03/31/technology/cellebrite-fbi-phone/index.html
Kirk, J. (2021, April 22). Signal Founder Says Cellebrite's Forensics Tools Flawed. https://www.bankinfosecurity.com/blogs/cellebrite-mobile-forensics-tool-maker-just-got-pwned-p-3020
Customer Stories (2024). In Cellebrite Online. https://cellebrite.com/en/resources/customer-stories/
